Hello friends, I'm Rick Warren, and welcome to Spurgeon's Sermons.
This is the official podcast brought to you by Premier and Spurgeon's College.
You know the teachings of Charles Spurgeon have had a personal impact on my life in a profound way, and I'm confident they'll do the same for you.
So get ready to be challenged, equipped, and guided by Charles Spurgeon, who is universally regarded as the greatest English preacher in the history of the church.
The glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ, Assermon by Charles Spurgeon, part 2.
For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians chapter 4 verse 6.
Note well
how Jesus loved His own which were in the world, loved them to the end, and with what tenderness and gentleness He bore with them as a nursing mother with her child.
For here you see the tenderness and gentleness of God and the love of the great Father towards His wayward children.
You read of Jesus receiving sinners and eating with them.
And what is this but the Lord God, merciful and gracious, passing by, transgression, iniquity and sin?
You see Jesus living as a physician among those diseased by sin, with the one aim of healing their sicknesses.
And here you see the pardoning mercy of our God, his delight in salvation and the joy which he has in mercy.
Beloved,
I cannot go through the whole life of Jesus Christ, it would be impossible, for time would fail us.
But if you will yourself select any incident in which Jesus appears, whether in the chamber of sickness or at a grave, whether in weakness or in power, you will in each case behold the glory of God.
Throughout his ministry, which was mainly a period of humiliation,
their gleams forth in the character acts and person of Jesus, the glory of the everlasting Father.
His acts compel us not only to admire, but to adore.
He is not merely a man whom God favors.
He is God Himself.
What will I say of His death?
I'll never did the love of God reveal itself so clearly.
as when he laid down his life for his sheep.
Nor did the justice of God ever flame forth so conspicuously as when he would suffer in himself the curse for sin rather than sin should go unpunished and the law should be dishonored.
Every attribute of God was focused at the cross and whoever has eyes to look through their tears and see the wounds of Jesus
will behold more of God there than a whole eternity of providence or an infinity of creation shall ever be able to reveal to them.
Well might the trembling centurion, as he watched the cross, exclaim, truly this was the Son of God?
Shall I need to remind you too of the glory of God in the person of Christ Jesus in his resurrection?
when he spoiled principalities and powers, led death captive and rifled the tomb.
That is indeed a godlike speech, I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold I am alive forevermore, and have the keys of hell and of death.
His power, his immortality, his eternal majesty, all shone forth,
as he left the shades of death.
I will not linger over his ascension when he returned to his own again.
Then his Godhead was conspicuous, for he again put on the glory which he had with the Father, or ever the world was.
Then, amid the acclamations of angels and redeemed spirits, the glory of the conquering Lord was seen.
by his descent he had destroyed the powers of darkness, and then he ascended that he might fill all things as only God can do.
I would only hint at his session at the right hand of God.
For there you know how adoring saints around him stand, and thrones and powers before him fall.
The God shines gracious through the man,
and sheds sweet glories on them all.
In heaven they never conceive of Jesus apart from the divine glory which perpetually surrounds him.
No one in heaven doubts his deity, for all fall prostrate before him.
All seize their harps and wake their strings to the praise of God and the Lamb.
The glory of God will most abundantly be seen in the second advent of our Lord.
Whatever splendor we may expect at the advent, whatever glory shall surround that reign of a thousand years, or the end when he shall deliver up the kingdom to God, even the Father.
In every transaction which prophecy leads us to expect, God in Christ Jesus will be conspicuous.
and angelic eyes shall look on with adoring admiration as they see the eternal Father glorious in the person of His Son.
These are great themes.
I will merely indicate them and leave them to your quiet thought.
It is enough to point to a table if men and women have appetites for food.
But now
I will ask you to think of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ in the same line of thought, only putting it in another fashion.
Treat it by way of observation.
When you look upon the material universe, you can see if your eyes are opened, something of the glory of God.
The reverent mind perceives enough to constrain the heart to worship.
and yet after a while it pines for more.
I have often heard the earth spoken of as the mirror of God's image.
But when I was traveling among the Alps and saw many of the grandest phenomena of creation such as glacier, avalanche and tempest, I was so impressed with the narrowness of visible things in comparison with God that I wrote such lines as these
The mirror of the creatures lacketh space to bear the image of the infinite.
Tis true the Lord hath fairly writ his name and set his seal upon creation's brow.
But as the skillful potter much excels the vessel which he fashions on the wheel.
In so but in proportion greater far Jehovah's self transcends his noblest works.
Earth's ponderous wheels would break, her axles snap, if freighted with the load of deity.
Space is too narrow for the eternal's rest, and time too short a footstool for his throne.
If your mind has ever entered into communion with God, you will become conscious of the dwarfing of all visible things in his presence.
Even when your thought
sweeps round the stars and circumnavigates space, you feel that heaven, even the heaven of heavens, cannot contain Him.
Everything conceivable falls short of the inconceivable glory of God.
When you come, however, to gaze upon the face of Christ Jesus, how different is the feeling?
Now you have a mirror equal to the reflection of the eternal face,
for in Him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily.
His name is wonderful, counselor, the mighty God.
He is the image of God, the brightness of His glory and the express image of His person.
If your conception of Christ is truthful, it will coincide with the true idea of God, and you will exclaim, this is the true God,
and eternal life.
Like Thomas, you will salute the wounded Savior with the cry, My Lord, and My God.
Truly, God was manifest in the flesh, not a part of Him, but God in perfection.
In the visible creation, we see God's works, but in Christ Jesus, we have God Himself, Emmanuel.
God with us.
The glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ is most sweetly conspicuous, because you are conscious that not only are God's attributes there, but God Himself is there.
In the person of Jesus we see the glory of God in the veiling of His splendor.
The Lord is not eager to display Himself.
Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, said the prophet of old.
The world seems to be created more to hide God than to manifest him.
At least, it is certain that even in the grandest displays of his power, we may say with Job, there was the hiding of his power.
Though his light is brightness itself, yet it is only the robe which conceals him,
who coverest thyself with light as with a garment.
If God's glory is seen in the field of creation as a light veiled and shaded to suit the human eye, we certainly see this in the face of Jesus Christ, where everything is mild and gentle, full of grace as well as truth.
How softly breaks the divine glory through the human life of Jesus.
A babe in grace may gaze upon this brightness without fear.
When Moses faced Sean, the people could not look upon him.
But when Jesus came from his transfiguration, the people ran to him and saluted him.
Everything is attractive in God, in Christ Jesus.
In him we see God to the full, but the deity so mildly beams through the medium of human flesh.
that mortal man may draw near and look and live.
This glory in the face of Jesus Christ is assuredly the glory of God, even though veiled.
For in every other instance does God in measure shine forth.
In providence and in nature such a thing as an unveiled God is not to be seen.
And the revelation of God in Christ follows the same divine pattern.
In our Lord Jesus, we see the glory of God in the wondrous blending of the attributes.
Behold his mercy, for he dies for sinners.
But see his justice, for he sits as judge of quick and dead.
Observe his immutability, for he is the same yesterday, today and forever.
And see his power.
For his voice shakes not only earth, but also heaven.
See how infinite is his love, for he espouses his chosen, but how terrible his wrath, for he consumes his adversaries.
All the attributes of deity are in him, power that can lull the tempest and tenderness that can embrace little children.
The character of Christ is a wonderful combination of all perfections, making up one perfection.
And so we see the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
For this is God's glory, that in Him nothing is excessive and nothing is deficient.
He is all that is good and great.
In Him is light and no darkness at all.
Is it not so displayed in Jesus our Lord?
Thank you for listening friends.
This podcast was brought to you by Premier in association with Spurgeon's College.
For more Christian podcasts, sermons and music, head back to the website premier dot plus and sign in for free.